Hello and welcome to the Ask Me Anything video that I just am promptly decided to do after we had a
thousand students which was just last week and we already have over two thousand students.
So I want to start off by saying Absolutely thank you.
Thank you so much for being part of this course.
It is beyond what I expected.
I thought I'll get a couple of hundred and call it a success but I've really really loved interacting
with a lot of you we have students from over 100 countries and everybody is so excited to learn with
so many different backgrounds.
And I just love the community that has come out of it.
Like I said it was beyond my expectation and I love that everybody so excited about learning to code.
So thank you so much.
You know I've created a couple of videos for you to watch but I think the community this forming around
it that's supporting each other and hopefully in a few months helping each other to become the web developers
that they want to be.
I think that's the most amazing part.
So again thank you so much.
I'm just gonna answer a few questions that some of you have asked to celebrate getting to a thousand
students.
The first one that I see over here is from Ashley and she asked what was your biggest hurdle after learning
starting a new career field.
I think the biggest hurdle that I encountered was definitely the imposter syndrome.
You may have heard of it.
It's the idea that you feel like an imposter you feel like everybody else knows this stuff except you
sit in a room and people start talking and you realize that you have no clue what's going on.
You're afraid to ask questions.
And I think that's the biggest hurdle realizing that when you read something or watch videos online.
People have practiced this and made sure that there's no mistakes in their writing and their videos.
And I did this as well.
And what this means is that what we project onto our videos or onto our blog post isn't exactly us being
perfect it's us iterating and making sure that we check our mistakes and fix them so nobody out there
knows every single answer about web development or coding.
We all are beginners and we are problem solvers.
We're really really good at solving problems not just dictionaries that know everything.
So really realize that you're not an imposter or you're not less than everybody else.
Everybody has these difficulties and I think the biggest thing you can do as a developer is ask a lot
of questions.
Any time you don't know something ask questions.
Don't feel like you don't.
You're the only one that doesn't know most likely other people in the room don't know except they are
afraid to ask a question and raise their hand.
So I think that's the biggest hurdle you got over that and you get comfortable asking questions to your
co-workers and when you don't understand something I did that a lot when I first started coding and
I was able to get answers and progress a lot faster than most people that didn't ask questions.
All right.
So next question was from Mike.
Other than javascript what is the most important language to learn.
I have to say probably other than Javascript Python is a really good language to learn mostly because
it's used a lot in machine learning and it's a very very fast growing field and I'm going to write a
little bit of a blog post on it so people can get familiar with it but python is definitely interesting.
The other one I'd say is solidity which is the coding language that is used in building distributed
applications for the area.
If you haven't heard about block chain and all the hype with cryptocurrency I think solidity is a really
interesting one.
In 2018 we're going to see a lot of distributed applications being created and there's a huge demand
for developers who know that language.
So I think those two are pretty pretty exciting.
I'll be writing a blog post about it so you can get more information.
You should look into those as well as javascript but focus on javascript first.
All right.
Next question was by Wasim and he asked if you were to hire a reactive helper from students who completed
this course.
What would be what do you can't read today.
What would you be looking for and what questions would you ask.
All right.
So I think I would ask number one what's the benefit of react.
Did they just learn a couple of syntax and no reactive.
Do they actually know what problems react solves.
And I go over that in the course so hopefully you understand it as well.
And then I'll also ask about what are its shortcomings when is it a bad time to use react.
Because I've seen a lot of people who get really really excited about the technology and think it's
the greatest gift ever.
Without understanding that not every problem can be solved by one library.
I think react is great for some things but not for everything.
And there are a lot of shortcomings that come with react that you should know as well.
Because if you were able to understand the pros and cons Well I think that you truly understand the
library and you were able to make a good decision as a developer and it's something that I tried to
do in this course which is not necessarily learn a bunch of functions and ways to do things but deeply
understand and know what problems they solve and when they're good to use and if you deeply understand
that then I would 100 percent hire somebody because I know that they have deep knowledge about something
and not something superficial which in turn means that they're able to do more than just follow instructions.
They're able to think on their own and doesn't just follow the rules and follow what I say but can think
for themselves and make good decisions.
All right next one by Josh which programming blogs do you read most frequently.
I definitely like Medium.
Medium is great for technical blog posts.
If you haven't been there before just medium dot com and just follow anything.
Actually I would say just follow the top 10 articles daily and see browse through them and see which
ones are related to technology.
I think they're really really good.
It's actually how I started this course I wrote a medium blog post that became very popular and I thought
hey maybe I should create a course the other one is software engineering daily and that's a podcast
that is really really good and it's not just about web development it's just about software engineering
in general and it can get very technical at times.
It really gives you a good grasp of what's out there and the technology as it evolves.
And then finally for JavaScript there is a javascript weekly newsletter you can google that and sign
up for it and every week you'll give you updates on javascript.
A few more questions we have.
What did you do prior to your career change.
So actually had an interesting career I guess I used to train tour directors around the world so I'd
fly to Costa Rica for example and train people.
I also had a small business that actually saw on yoga and surf retreats.
I've always worked with people and every once in a while I need a Web site made and I would give a bunch
of money to a developer and never know what was happening behind the scenes.
The finished product would never come as I wanted it and it was kind of this black hole that I was storing
money into so I wanted to learn it for myself and that's kind of how I got into the field and next thing
you know I really really enjoyed it and decided to make the career move based on the fact that a it's
a great industry to be in and that I found it interesting.
The next question was How did you get your first job as a DEP.
It's actually got my job as a developer five months after well after his training with a Shia mile I
didn't know what a small CSI is javascript any of that stuff was don't really know how the internet
worked.
Five months later I got a job and now even as a junior developer but as an intermediate developer that's
nothing to show off but just to show you how fast you can progress through this career.
If you really work for it and understand the fundamentals.
So the first shot that I got actually applied by messaging a bunch of companies that I was interested
in and finding their email their CEO's email and letting them know that I was interesting in a role
and that I was solving a specific problem that they had.
So research a company and say hey I noticed that you know your website or your app could have this and
just fixed.
This is how I would do it or I would message a CEO and be like Hey these are my past past achievements.
I've recently turned into a developer and I guarantee you I will work twice as hard as anybody else
on the team and just kind of make a friend promise I guess in order to really castrate attention.
So another question was how did the interview go.
I actually had multiple offers when I first got my developer role and I think I was able to get those
offers not because I was the best developer in the world and by no means am I done now but I think in
the interview what I was able to do was to convince them that I will work harder than everybody else
and I made sure to do that by showcasing that hey I come from a different background.
I'm not a computer programmer.
I graduated with with a degree and I turned that actually into an advantage by telling them all the
other things that I've done beforehand and then finally showing them that I was a self-taught programmer
just like yourselves and showing that I had the ambition and determination so that by the end of the
interview I was able to convince them that although I may not be the most skilled developer out there
I'd be the hardest working and I would make sure that I would learn these things so that I'd become
a really really valuable employee.
In six months and I think if you're able to do that you'll be surprised how many more offers you'll
get because there are a lot of developers out there but it's really really hard to find developers who
a can have can follow instructions.
B can work hard and c aren't so confident in their abilities that they have a narrow vision and don't
take others inputs.
So if you're able to convince somebody that you're going to help them out do your homework really really
hard and that you're gonna be an asset to them that will make their life easier.
I think that is a great great way to land a job.
All right.
Next question from when is three books that have inspired you in some way.
And I've chosen non coding related books just because I think the coding related books all the popular
ones everybody knows or you can google them around but the three books that have really inspired me.
One is the four hour workweek that by Tim Ferriss that some of you may have heard of.
It's a very popular book.
I don't like the actual content tips and tricks but I really like the way that Tim thinks and he thinks
in efficiency and I'm obsessed with using our limited time to the most efficient degree possible.
So that means what is the best way for me to learn a topic and now waste my time.
What is the best way for me to learn something and get rewards as soon as possible.
And I'm sure you can notice in this course.
That's what I did.
I wanted to find the most efficient way possible to start earning money as fast as we can and start
working in teams as soon as we can.
Because while we have limited time and we're able to learn a lot more when we're surrounded by others
when we're working in development.
So that book not just in developing has really influenced my life to make sure that I think critically
about what I do to grow and career personally financially and emotionally just everything to try and
look at everything and now analyze things.
The second book was the so good they can't ignore you.
And this book is by Cal Newport and it's a book that I read and it changed my thinking completely once
again and it taught the idea that passion isn't really a thing when we're young we we think that you
know we're passionate about traveling we're passionate about surfing and we try and follow this passion.
But this book argues that passion naturally develops from mastery from becoming really really good at
a skill where people start paying you money for it and you become respected and in your field and people
have admiration for you.
And when you become really really good at math sir at your craft well that's when you become content
with your life that's when you feel like you're providing value to people.
And that book has really really shaped the last couple of years for me.
It's why I've I've really got into coding and I've really started to enjoy it more and more it's because
I've become better and better at it.
So I highly recommend that book.
Finally the third book is smart cuts by Shane Snow and this is a book that I recommend to everybody
taking that course especially those that don't come from a computer science background.
It talks about how you can actually climb the ladder of success not by just you know following the traditional
path by but by jumping from side to side from it.
For example you are you are an actor and now you want to become a developer.
Well this book argues that that's actually better because you're able to use whatever you learned into
that field and jump on this other ladder of developing and use those skills that no other person has
such as communicating with people and being empathetically and mimicking body language from each other.
That's something that you know not a lot of developers know.
So using those side skills to your advantage you can definitely check out the book.
It's really really good highly recommended right now.
Next question your opinion on the block chain technology.
Very very cool stuff.
I'm actually really interested in it and writing a blog post on it.
I think everybody should learn the block chain data structure you can actually do it in JavaScript and
build this simple one quite easily in a day.
And I think it's very very exciting.
I think there's a lot of hype around it.
I wouldn't recommend investing in it but you know t Sharon.
I think that technology is actually very interesting and there will be big change in 2018 and the field
will grow really really fast.
This is getting long so last two questions we have what is the meaning of life.
I'm probably the worst person to ask that too.
I have no idea.
But I can't tell you one thing that I live my life by and I heard it somewhere I wish I could credit
the person that I heard it from provide more value than you capture and I think that's really interesting.
And this what I did tried to do with the course I tried to provide a lot of value as much as I could.
And now there are times that are really really sucked making this course because it took a lot of hours
a lot of editing and a lot of times where I didn't like the video site to redo it over but I wanted
to provide something really valuable and just capture a little bit of the benefit.
And I like this way of thinking I like this idea of providing out as much value not necessarily capturing
it and getting upset if you know your course gets copied and taunted and people downloaded for free.
If you're able to help a bunch of people that's great if you're able to capture a bit of the benefit
that's great as well but I think that's a really nice way of looking at things and if we all strive
to do that as web developers to to capture a little bit of the value that we provide to the world I
think the world would be a better better place right.
Last question.
How many messages do you get every day from your students.
I mean this number has definitely increased.
You know I'm very very excited about I can't believe that we have over two thousand students now and
I definitely spend a lot of time I wish I kept track of things but you know I wake up in the morning
I spend about an hour answering messages.
Then in the afternoon I spend another hour to answering messages and questions and again at night I
do that as well and if I don't do that three times a day I won't be able to keep up with it.
I'll have to figure out a better system too because I do want to answer each student.
I want to I want people to feel comfortable asking me as many questions as they can but I do also want
to continue providing new videos and evolving the course to be better and better based on feedback.
So we'll see.
It's been it's been so much fun right now and so exciting that some of you know I've quit my job to
focus on this course full time so all the feedback all the community and everybody that's that's helping
me out on slack answering questions and trying to form open source projects.
It's been really really fun and this is probably the most fun I've got working in my life and for that
I really really thank you I think you're all amazing and I think what I provide to you is perhaps 20
percent of the value I think the community and the support that we're creating with this course is the
big benefit and I hope it keeps growing and I hope it becomes something bigger than I ever envisioned
and I hope all of you by the end of this get what you want out of it.
Whether to improve your skills to get a job or just to get a little bit smarter.
I'll see you in the next video.
Thanks for watching.
My face stopped for I don't know how long this video is but it felt really really long.
I really really appreciate all of you.
Thanks so much.
Bye bye.